Proofreading-OV-Runtime (#11658)
openvinotoolkit/openvino: docs/OV_Runtime_UG/ShapeInference.md

# Changing Input Shapes {#openvino_docs_OV_UG_ShapeInference}

> This guide presents information about operating on Input Shapes, divided into C++ and Python sections.

Reviewer: We don't need another introduction sentence here because we have a short Introduction section below. Instead, I would that suggest we remove the #Introduction heading, and integrate what will be introduced in this article into the introduction section. Besides, I remember we are supposed to change the global switcher for C++ and Python to be element-specific.

> This guide presents information about operating on Input Shapes, divided into C++ and Python sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Checked the paragraph in the original Introduction section - it can be a good summary of this article, so I'm removing this intro sentence here. :)

> ## Introduction (C++)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It may be useful when you want to feed model an input that has different size than model input shape. 
If you need to do this only once, prepare a model with updated shapes via Model Optimizer. See [Specifying --input_shape Command-line Parameter](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes) for more information. For all the other cases, follow the instructions below.

### Setting a New Input Shape with Reshape Method

The `ov::Model::reshape` method updates input shapes and propagates them down to the outputs of the model through all intermediate layers.
For example, changing the batch size and spatial dimensions of input of a model with an image input:

![shape_inference_explained](./img/original_vs_reshaped_model.png)

Consider the code below to achieve that:

@snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp picture_snippet

### Setting a New Batch Size with set_batch Method

The meaning of the model batch may vary depending on the model design.
In order to change the batch dimension of the model, [set the ov::Layout](@ref declare_model_s_layout) and call the `ov::set_batch` method.

@snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp set_batch

> The `ov::set_batch` method is a high level API of the `ov::Model::reshape` functionality, so all information about the `ov::Model::reshape` method implications are applicable for the `ov::set_batch` too, including the troubleshooting section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ov::set_batch` method is a high level API of the `ov::Model::reshape` functionality, so all information about the `ov::Model::reshape` method implications are applicable for `ov::set_batch` too, including the troubleshooting section.
```

> Once the input shape of the `ov::Model` is set, call the `ov::Core::compile_model` method to get an `ov::CompiledModel` object for inference with updated shapes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the input shape of `ov::Model` is set, call the `ov::Core::compile_model` method to get an `ov::CompiledModel` object for inference with updated shapes.
```

@endsphinxdirective

OpenVINO™ provides capabilities to change model input shape during the runtime.
It may be useful when you want to feed model an input that has different size than model input shape. 

> In case you need to do this only once prepare a model with updated shapes via [Model Optimizer](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes). For all the other cases, follow further instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to do this only once, prepare a model with updated shapes via Model Optimizer. See [Specifying --input_shape Command-line Parameter](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes) for more information. For all the other cases, follow the instructions below.
```

> ### Set a New Input Shape with Reshape Method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting a New Input Shape with Reshape Method
```

The `ov::Model::reshape` method updates input shapes and propagates them down to the outputs of the model through all intermediate layers.
For example, changing the batch size and spatial dimensions of input of a model with an image input:

![shape_inference_explained](./img/original_vs_reshaped_model.png)

Consider the code below to achieve that:

@snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp picture_snippet

> ### Set a New Batch Size with set_batch Method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting a New Batch Size with set_batch Method
```

Meaning of the model batch may vary depending on the model design.
In order to change the batch dimension of the model, [set the ov::Layout](@ref declare_model_s_layout) and call the `ov::set_batch` method.

@snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp set_batch

The `ov::set_batch` method is a high level API of the `ov::Model::reshape` functionality, so all information about the `ov::Model::reshape` method implications are applicable for the `ov::set_batch` too, including the troubleshooting section.

Once the input shape of the `ov::Model` is set, call the `ov::Core::compile_model` method to get an `ov::CompiledModel` object for inference with updated shapes.

There are other approaches to change model input shapes during the stage of [IR generation](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes) or [ov::Model creation](../OV_Runtime_UG/model_representation.md).

### Dynamic Shape Notice

Shape-changing functionality could be used to turn dynamic model input into a static one and vice versa.
It is recommended to always set static shapes when the shape of data is not going to change from one inference to another.

> Setting static shapes avoids possible functional limitations, memory and run time overheads for dynamic shapes that vary depending on hardware plugin and model used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting static shapes can avoid possible functional limitations, memory, and runtime overheads for dynamic shapes which may vary depending on hardware plugin and model used.
```

To learn more about dynamic shapes in OpenVINO, see the [dedicated article](../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md).

### Usage of the Reshape Method <a name="usage_of_reshape_method"></a>

The primary method of the feature is `ov::Model::reshape`. It is overloaded to better serve two main use cases:

> 1) To change input shape of model with a single input you may pass a new shape into the method. See the example of adjusting spatial dimensions to the input image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) To change the input shape of the model with a single input, you may pass a new shape to the method. See the example of adjusting spatial dimensions to the input image below:
```

> @snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp spatial_reshape

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   @snippet snippets/ShapeInference.cpp spatial_reshape
```

@endsphinxdirective

> Find usage scenarios of the `reshape` feature in the [samples](Samples_Overview.md), starting with the [Hello Reshape Sample](../../samples/cpp/hello_reshape_ssd/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usage scenarios of the `reshape` feature can be found in the [samples section](Samples_Overview.md), starting with the [Hello Reshape Sample](../../samples/cpp/hello_reshape_ssd/README.md).
```

Changing the model input shape may result in intermediate operations shape collision.

Examples of such operations:

> * [Reshape](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md) operation with a hard-coded output shape value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The  [Reshape](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md) operation with a hard-coded output shape value.
```

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input and this input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input and this input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
```

Model structure and logic should not change significantly after model reshaping.
- The Global Pooling operation is commonly used to reduce output feature map of classification models output.
Having the input of the shape [N, C, H, W], Global Pooling returns the output of the shape [N, C, 1, 1].
Model architects usually express Global Pooling with the help of the `Pooling` operation with the fixed kernel size [H, W].
During spatial reshape, having the input of the shape [N, C, H1, W1], Pooling with the fixed kernel size [H, W] returns the output of the shape [N, C, H2, W2], where H2 and W2 are commonly not equal to `1`.
It breaks the classification model structure.

> For example, [publicly available Inception family models from TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/slim#pre-trained-models) have this issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, publicly available [Inception family models from TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/slim#pre-trained-models) have this issue.
```

Changing the model input shape may result in intermediate operations shape collision.

Examples of such operations:
* [Reshape](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md) operation with a hard-coded output shape value.

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Author: > 

Hmm, I'd leave it the way it was. An input "not being able to be ....." sounds too perplexing, IMHO. 
I also think such phrases would go better when referring to animate objects.

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Reviewer: That has changed the meaning: the "cannot" version means "MatMul operation cannot be resized"; the "not being able to" version means "the `Const` second input cannot be resized". I think an operation cannot be resized, only the input can, right?

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Author: What about:

```suggestion
* [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input that cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
```

?? ;)

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Reviewer: That can still be ambiguous because the object of the clause can still be "MatMul". Or: [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input, where the `Const` second input cannot resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
Not sure if it will make the sentence even more complicated. 
The "with sth doing" phrase is more clear to me.

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Author: Speaking of ambiguity, I believe same could be applied to:

```
an operation with the input not being able to be resized
```
The safest approach will be to split it into two sentences.

```suggestion
* [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input. The input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
```

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Reviewer: I think "an operation with the input not being able to be resized" does not have this ambiguity, because the phrase "not being able to be resized" is not a standard attributive clause. It only makes sense with a "with", which makes "the input" the object. 
If you want to write it into two sentences, your need to be clear on one question: can the `Const` second input be resized alone? or only when it cannot be resized applies to the case here?

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Author: Being clear on this:

```suggestion
* [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input. This input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
```
Thus, we are certain it refers to the input that is mentioned.

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Reviewer: We can integrate it by adding an "and".

> * [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.

Author: I think so too.

```suggestion
* [MatMul](../ops/matrix/MatMul_1.md) operation with the `Const` second input and this input cannot be resized by spatial dimensions due to operation semantics.
```

Model structure and logic should not change significantly after model reshaping.
- The Global Pooling operation is commonly used to reduce output feature map of classification models output.
Having the input of the shape [N, C, H, W], Global Pooling returns the output of the shape [N, C, 1, 1].
Model architects usually express Global Pooling with the help of the `Pooling` operation with the fixed kernel size [H, W].
During spatial reshape, having the input of the shape [N, C, H1, W1], Pooling with the fixed kernel size [H, W] returns the output of the shape [N, C, H2, W2], where H2 and W2 are commonly not equal to `1`.
It breaks the classification model structure.

> For example, publicly available [Inception family models from TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/slim#pre-trained-models) have this issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the publicly available [Inception family models from TensorFlow](https://github.com/tensorflow/models/tree/master/research/slim#pre-trained-models) have this issue.
```

For example, the most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hard-coded output shape.
You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture, the Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```
With `1:reshaped[2]`, it's requested to cut the 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means the 2nd input) of the operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
With `->[0 -1]`, this new `Parameter` is replaced by a `Constant` operator which has the `[0, -1]` value. 
Since the `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as specific values (see the meaning in [this specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)), it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

* transform the model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. For more information, see the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).

> * transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. For more information, see the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. For more information, see [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).
```

Some operators which prevent normal shape propagation can be fixed. To do so you can:
* see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators input. 

> E.g., most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.
```

You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```
With `1:reshaped[2]` you request to cut 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means 2nd inputs) of operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
With `->[0 -1]` you replace this new `Parameter` by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 
Since `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as a specific values (see the meaning in [the specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)) it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

> * transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension article](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. For more information, see the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).
```

> * transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations article](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. For more information, see the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).
```

> * modify the original model with the help of original framework

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* modify the original model with the help of original framework.
```

Some operators which prevent normal shape propagation can be fixed. To do so you can:

> * see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators input. 

Author: > 

```suggestion
* see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators' input. 
```

> For example, most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.
```

You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```

> With `1:reshaped[2]` you request to cut 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means 2nd inputs) of operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `1:reshaped[2]`, it's requested to cut the 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means the 2nd input) of the operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
```

With `->[0 -1]` you replace this new `Parameter` by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 

> Since `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as a specific values (see the meaning in [the specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)) it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as specific values (see the meaning in [this specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)), it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.
```

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

> * transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. For more information, see the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* transform the model through Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. For more information, see the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).
```

* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. For more information, see the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).

> * modify the original model with the help of original framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* modify the original model with the help of the original framework.
```

@endsphinxdirective

OpenVINO™ provides capabilities to change model input shape during the runtime.
It may be useful when you want to feed model an input that has different size than model input shape. 

> In case you need to do this only once [prepare a model with updated shapes via Model Optimizer](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes) for all the other cases follow further instructions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to do this only once, prepare a model with updated shapes via Model Optimizer. See [specifying input shapes](@ref when_to_specify_input_shapes) for more information. For all the other cases, follow the instructions below.
```

> ### Set a New Input Shape with Reshape Method

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Setting a New Input Shape with Reshape Method
```

 
@endsphinxdirective

### Set a New Batch Size with set_batch Method

> Meaning of the model batch may vary depending on the model design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The meaning of the model batch may vary depending on the model design.
```

### Dynamic Shape Notice

Shape-changing functionality could be used to turn dynamic model input into a static one and vice versa.
It is recommended to always set static shapes when the shape of data is not going to change from one inference to another.

> Setting static shapes avoids possible functional limitations, memory and run time overheads for dynamic shapes that vary depending on hardware plugin and model used.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Setting static shapes avoids possible functional limitations, memory and run-time overheads for dynamic shapes that vary depending on hardware plugin and used model.
```

### Dynamic Shape Notice

Shape-changing functionality could be used to turn dynamic model input into a static one and vice versa.
It is recommended to always set static shapes when the shape of data is not going to change from one inference to another.

> Setting static shapes avoids possible functional limitations, memory and run-time overheads for dynamic shapes that vary depending on hardware plugin and used model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Setting static shapes can avoid possible functional limitations, memory, and runtime overheads for dynamic shapes which may vary depending on hardware plugin and used model.
```

> To learn more about dynamic shapes in OpenVINO, see the [dedicated article](../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about dynamic shapes in OpenVINO, see the [Dynamic Shapes](../OV_Runtime_UG/ov_dynamic_shapes.md) article.
```

### Usage of the Reshape Method <a name="usage_of_reshape_method"></a>

The primary method of the feature is [Model.reshape](api/ie_python_api/_autosummary/openvino.runtime.Model.html#openvino.runtime.Model.reshape). It is overloaded to better serve two main use cases:

> 1) To change input shape of a model with a single input you may pass a new shape into the method. See the example of adjusting spatial dimensions to the input image:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1) To change the input shape of a model with a single input, you may pass a new shape to the method. See the example of adjusting spatial dimensions to the input image:
```

To do the opposite - resize input image to the input shapes of the model, use the [pre-processing API](../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md).

2) Otherwise, you can express reshape plan via dictionary mapping input and its new shape:
Dictionary keys could be:

> * `str` specifies input by its name

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `str` specifies input by its name.
```

> * `int` specifies input by its index

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `int` specifies input by its index.
```

> * `openvino.runtime.Output` specifies input by passing actual input object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `openvino.runtime.Output` specifies input by passing actual input object.
```

Dictionary values (representing new shapes) could be:

> * `list`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `list`.
```

> * `tuple`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `tuple`.
```

> * `PartialShape`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The `PartialShape`.
```

To do the opposite - resize input image to the input shapes of the model, use the [pre-processing API](../OV_Runtime_UG/preprocessing_overview.md).

2) Otherwise, you can express reshape plan via dictionary mapping input and its new shape:
Dictionary keys could be:

> * The `str` specifies input by its name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `str` key specifies input by its name.
```

> * The `int` specifies input by its index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The `int` key specifies input by its index.
```

* The `openvino.runtime.Output` specifies input by passing actual input object.

Dictionary values (representing new shapes) could be:

> * The `list`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `list`
```

> * The `tuple`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `tuple`
```

> * The `PartialShape`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `PartialShape`
```

@endsphinxdirective

> Find usage scenarios of the `reshape` feature in the [samples](Samples_Overview.md), starting with [Hello Reshape Sample](../../samples/python/hello_reshape_ssd/README.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Usage scenarios of the `reshape` feature can be found in the [samples section](Samples_Overview.md), starting with [Hello Reshape Sample](../../samples/python/hello_reshape_ssd/README.md).
```

@endsphinxdirective

Usage scenarios of the `reshape` feature can be found in the [samples section](Samples_Overview.md), starting with [Hello Reshape Sample](../../samples/python/hello_reshape_ssd/README.md).

> In practice, some models are not ready to be reshaped. In such cases, a new input shape cannot be set with the Model Optimizer or the `Model.reshape` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In practice, some models are not ready to be reshaped. In such cases, a new input shape cannot be set with Model Optimizer or the `Model.reshape` method.
```

Some operators which prevent normal shape propagation can be fixed. To do so you can:
* see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators input. 

> E.g., most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.
```

You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```
With `1:reshaped[2]` you request to cut 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means 2nd inputs) of operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
With `->[0 -1]` you replace this new `Parameter` by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 
Since `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as a specific values (see the meaning in [the specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)) it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

> * transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension article](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).
```

> * transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations article](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).
```

> * modify the original model with the help of original framework

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* modify the original model with the help of original framework.
```

Some operators which prevent normal shape propagation can be fixed. To do so you can:
* see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators input. 
For example, the most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hard-coded output shape.
You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```
With `1:reshaped[2]`, it's requested to cut the 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means the 2nd input) of the operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
With `->[0 -1]`, this new `Parameter` is replaced by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 
Since the `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as specific values (see the meaning in [this specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)), it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

> * transform the model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* transform the model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).
```

> * transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).
```

Some operators which prevent normal shape propagation can be fixed. To do so you can:
* see if the issue can be fixed via changing the values of some operators input. 
For example, most common problem of non-reshape-able models is a `Reshape` operator with hardcoded output shape.
You can cut-off hard-coded 2nd input of `Reshape` and fill it in with relaxed values.
For the following example on the picture Model Optimizer CLI should be:
```sh
mo --input_model path/to/model --input data[8,3,224,224],1:reshaped[2]->[0 -1]`
```

> With `1:reshaped[2]` you request to cut 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means 2nd inputs) of operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `1:reshaped[2]`, it's requested to cut the 2nd input (counting from zero, so `1:` means the 2nd input) of the operation named `reshaped` and replace it with a `Parameter` with shape `[2]`.
```

> With `->[0 -1]` you replace this new `Parameter` by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `->[0 -1]`, this new `Parameter` is replaced by a `Constant` operator which has value `[0, -1]`. 
```

> Since `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as a specific values (see the meaning in [the specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)) it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `Reshape` operator has `0` and `-1` as specific values (see the meaning in [this specification](../ops/shape/Reshape_1.md)), it allows propagating shapes freely without losing the intended meaning of `Reshape`.
```

![batch_relaxed](./img/batch_relaxation.png)

> * transform model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* transform the model during Model Optimizer conversion on the back phase. See the [Model Optimizer extension](../MO_DG/prepare_model/customize_model_optimizer/Customize_Model_Optimizer.md).
```

* transform OpenVINO Model during the runtime. See the [OpenVINO Runtime Transformations](../Extensibility_UG/ov_transformations.md).

> * modify the original model with the help of original framework.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* modify the original model with the help of the original framework.
```
